---
title: Yvan Richard
email: yvan@dragonfly.co.nz
firstname: Yvan
lastname: Richard
mobile: ''
tag: yvan
banner: richard-yvan/yvan-richard-letterbox.jpg
---

Yvan's background is in ecology—specifically population dynamics, conservation
biology, animal movements and landscape ecology. 

He moved from France to New Zealand in 2002 to study for a PhD at Massey
University on habitat fragmentation and bird population dynamics. 

Yvan started at Dragonfly in 2010 and has worked extensively on the analysis of
seabird bycatch in fisheries.  

“I developed a passion for ecology when I was working on the black-legged
kittiwake with some amazing characters doing both fieldwork in unique places
and dealing with interesting research questions. My mentors at university and
then the National Museum of Natural History in Paris were a big influence on
me.

Yvan completed his undergraduate study at the University Pierre et Marie Curie
in Paris. His PhD and two-year post-doc at Massey University in Palmerston
North, where he was involved in Marsden-funded projects using robins as a model
for studying habitat fragmentation. He gained experience with modern analysis
techniques such as Bayesian analysis, machine learning, GIS, habitat
suitability models, and capture-recapture models. 

“I've always loved spending time in the field, whether its on the cliffs of
Brittany in France, the Norwegian arctic or the forests here in New Zealand. I
also enjoy the intellectual challenge of data analysis, and coming up with a
better understanding and drawing out meaningful stories.  

“I enjoy the lifestyle in New Zealand and the opportunity to do innovative
things and move forward here. The job at Dragonfly has been full of challenge,
but I feel I'm doing something very useful. There's a great atmosphere here and
we have plenty of fun in the team. It's the best job.” 

