---
title: Risk to seabirds from fisheries
---

# Risk to seabirds from fisheries

We assessed the risk to 70 species of seabirds from commercial fishing
activity. This information has enabled decisions to be made about resource
allocation and population management, despite uncertainties and limited data.

## Decline in seabird numbers

New Zealand is the centre of seabird diversity worldwide, with approximately 85
species breeding on the three main islands and associated offshore islands.
Many seabird species are threatened and, in some cases, bycatch in fisheries is
thought to be a cause. Although qualitative information was available to show
that seabirds are at risk from fishing, a quantitative analysis of that risk
was lacking. There was concern that with limited time and resources,
conservation efforts should be prioritised to species at greatest risk.

## Calculating a risk index

Yvan Richard of Dragonfly Science was part of the team, including Dominique
Filippi (Sextant Technology), and Ben Sharp (Ministry for Primary Industries)
that carried out the risk-assessment. Yvan comments, "Our method was
standardised across all species and made it easy to see which seabirds were
most at risk, and which were not at risk. It also highlighted situations where
there was a lack of data, both about the population and about interactions with
fisheries."

The assessment calculated a risk index for each species, from a ratio of the
number of birds killed by fisheries each year to the PBR (Potential Biological
Removals: the number of individuals that can be removed from a population
without its viability being jeopardised).

## Modelling methods

"The PBR method was originally developed for studying marine mammals. We used a
range of analysis methods in this project, including Bayesian statistics, to
consider uncertainties in parameters explicitly and rigorously, says Yvan.

"There was a huge variation in the population information available for
different species, which was a challenge. We know a lot about very few species,
and very little for most, often because they live in inaccessible places. Our
model had to take account of some serious deficiencies in the data."

## Results

The black petrel (Procellaria parkinsoni) was found to be the species most at
risk, with the number of annual fishing-related fatalities estimated to be
almost 20 times the PBR. This species is endemic to New Zealand and is
classified as Vulnerable by the IUCN (IUCN 2010). Five other species were
identified as being at "Very high risk". Four species were considered at "High
risk", nine at "Medium risk", seven at "Low risk", and the risk for the
remaining 45 species was considered as negligible.

"Most of the observed black petrel captures were close to its breeding grounds
in the Hauraki gulf. From 70 observed captures between 2006--07 and 2010--11,
we estimated that between 1070 and 1900 birds may have potentially been killed
each year, but the species' PBR was estimated to be between 47 and 117
mortalities per year. These results suggest that this species requires
immediate management."

> "In assessing the risk of commercial fisheries to New Zealand's seabird
> populations, Dragonfly bridged the gap between science and its associated
> uncertainties, and policy and its inherent conflicts. They fostered an open and
> inclusive approach with all stakeholders".
> 
> "The assessment exercise has given us a new perspective on the risks posed by
> commercial fisheries, and in particular highlighted risks facing seabirds in
> New Zealandâ€™s inshore fisheries."

Bob Zuur , Marine Advocate, WWF-New Zealand.

